“Holy shit.” I’ve never really thought much about this expression before, except that upon exiting The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, it was the first thing that came to my lips. And it seemed horribly apt.

ANNOUNCEMENTS, EVENTS & MORE FROM TYEE AND SELECT PARTNERS
Will Journalism Survive?Will Journalism Survive?
The question is debatable. But we can do something to make sure it does.

The Tyee’s Hummingbird Fellowship Is Open for ApplicationsThe Tyee’s Hummingbird Fellowship Is Open for Applications
Join us for a paid six-month fellowship for early-career journalists.

There isn’t a single moment in this film, front to end, that rings true. It reminded me of the Archie comic books they used to give away at the Greyhound bus depot. It wasn’t until I was happily ensconced on the bus and flipped open my brand new comic book, that I realized I’d been had. It was a Christian Archie!

A similar creeping sentiment pervades this entire film, a feeling of being lied and proselytized to at the same time. However, it isn’t the Christian message that is most troubling, but the fact that the film is so shoddily put together. It’s lacking in a certain something called magic. In its place is something else, called marketing. Which is just about the furthest thing from magic.

C.S. Lewis’ famous story, despite its sticky allegorical center, has a dry wit that is intensely English. In the movie, that biscuity quality is entirely gone, replaced by CGI and swelling strings.

It is jolly olde England all right; WW II is at its height, and the nasty Nazis are shelling the hell out of the place. Mumsie Pevensie packs off her brood to the countryside, the better to protect the little blighters. The foursome is soon on a train, bagged, tagged and delivered to their elderly uncle.

The Pevensies are: Peter, who bares an unfortunate resemblance to John Boy Walton, minus the melanoma, but with the same mooncalf stare; Lucy, priggish and uptight, with lips swollen up like balloons; Edmund, the only realistically sullen one in the bunch, and little Lucy, who does her best acting with her enormous teeth. One can’t really blame the actors for this atrocity; they are after all, only children, it’s the adults around then that ought to be soundly spanked and sent to bed with no dinner.